So let's take a look at some useful tools that could help us identify locators.
So there are many tools that could be used to retrieve locator values for you.
These tools even allow you to modify the locator value to write custom locators.
Most of these tools come as browser add ons, and I tend to use Google Chrome partly because of the
great extensions and because of its popularity.
But approach with caution.
Do not become too reliant on such tools, especially as a beginner.
If you're starting out, then focus on write in manual locators first so they become familiar of how
they're written.
Understanding locators is a key skill to master in selenium.
So let's take a look at a tool that can help us.
So there are many tools out there that can help us find locators.
But the one I like to use is called Run Rocks Velocity.
And this comes as a Google Chrome addon.
So I'm going to open up Google Chrome and I'm going to search for Ran Rock Velocity.
And you should see there is a link here to chrome dot google dot com and if I click here you should
take it to the following page.
So here you can see some samples of this tool.
But I'm going to click this add to Chrome button and then click Add Extension and they will install
it on my version of Chrome.
Once I have that confirmation message, I'm then going to go to the address bar and I'm going to go
to the automation testing websites.
I'm then going to click on the Contact US form link and it's on this page.
I'm going to demonstrate trend rocket velocity.
So there are a number of ways that we can access the Ragnarok philosophy panel.
You can either press F12 12 when you keyboard, or I can right click the page and click inspect.
And if I click on this little arrow here, you'll see an option to run rocket velocity and on click
in that it will open up the runner box panel.
So this is the Ragnarok philosophy panel.
And you can see there is a list of selectors here and are some selectors that have been passed to me.
And there's also a text field here to.
So how to use this is quite simply to use a select the tool as we've used previously.
And if I click an element such as the submit button, take a look at that list of selectors.
You can see it have been updated and that's Ragnarok Velocity suggests in a list of selectors that I
can use in order to construct my test.
So you'll see on the right hand side here, there is a little pencil icon.
And if I click the pencil we can on the second row that value gets taken.
That is textbox.
And if I press into my keyboard.
You see, they found one element that matches this particular selector.
And you can see that there is a slight border around the element to.
So if I press enter again on my keyboard, take a look at the submit button on the left hand side.
So you can see it's been highlighted.
So this is a really good so that we can use to find selectors and if we wanted to copy a value of a
selector.
Also given this little copy icon which would compress and that means we can paste it into something
like eclipse.
The really good thing about this tool is that we can also write our custom locators.
So for example, if I was to write inputs and click into my keyboard, you'll see they'll find all input
elements on this page and it's identified five of them.
And if I was to press forward arrow, each one of those will get highlighted.
So if I wanted to focus on the reset button and if I wasn't going to use a selector tool in this text
box here, I can write.
Open square bracket type equals and instead of submits.
I'm going to change that to reset and then press into my keyboard.
And you can see it's identified that one reset button elements.
And the reason for that is that there is five input elements on this page.
So I needed to focus on this reset button, but provided a unique value.
And that unique value is type equals reset.
Because if we look at the HTML in the document object model for this reset button, we can see is the
only input type on the page that has a type of reset.
So that's why this locator value has found one element, and that's the elements we was after, which
is the reset button.
So what I could have done is simply select the selected tool and then click on the reset button and
you you'll see that banner box has provided a list of suggested selectors.
But I wanted to demonstrate how we could write custom locators using this textbox.
So this is Ragnarok philosophy in a nutshell.
Don't worry if it seems complicated, as will be used it often.
But a key thing to remember is don't rely too much on this tool to begin with.